.TH sopwith.cfg 5
.SH NAME
sopwith.cfg \- configuration file for SDL Sopwith
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fIsopwith.cfg\fR
is the configuration file for \fBsopwith\fR(6).
The settings stored in \fIsopwith.cfg\fR are usually modified in-game via
the options menu.
.PP
\fIsopwith.cfg\fR is normally stored in the user's home directory,
as \fI~/.local/share/SDL Sopwith/default.cfg\fR. The path can be
overridden using the \fBXDG_DATA_HOME\fR environment variable (see the XDG
Base Directory Specification).
.br
.SH FILE FORMAT
The file is a plain-text file, consisting of a list of configuration
options and their values, separated by whitespace.  Each option is stored
on a separate line.
.PP
For example:
.RS
.PP
integer_value                1
.br
integer_value2               1
.RE
.PP
Lines beginning with "#" are interpreted as comments and will be ignored.
Invalid lines or comments in the file will generate a warning, but will
otherwise be ignored.
.PP
Some options are used for keyboard key bindings; these are stored as
integer values containing the keyboard scan code of the key to be bound to.
Boolean values are also stored as integers, with a value of zero usually
indicating "false" and a non-zero value indicating "true".

.SH CONFIGURATION VARIABLES
.TP
\fBvid_fullscreen\fR
If 1, the game runs full screen rather than in a window. By default this is 0.
.TP
\fBsnd_tinnyfilter\fR
If 1, a filter is applied to the sound output so that it sounds more like a
tinny PC speaker that's inside a metal PC case. By default this is 1.
.TP
\fBconf_solidground\fR
If 1, display the ground as a solid white block, reproducing the visual
appearance of "Sopwith 1". If 0, the ground is displayed as a line, reproducing
the visual appearance of "Sopwith 2". By default this is 0.
.TP
\fBconf_hudsplats\fR
If 1, "splats" are shown on the screen when the plane takes damage: splatted
birds are shown on the screen after a bird strike; windscreen "cracks" are
shown if the plane is hit by bullets, and the whole screen turns magenta after
flying through an ox.
This feature was added by the original author of Sopwith in the "Network Edition"
release.
By default this is 0.
.TP
\fBconf_wounded\fR
If 1, planes can take a single unit of damage without crashing. Your plane
becomes slower to turn when wounded.
This feature was added by the original author of Sopwith in the "Network Edition"
release.
By default this is 0.
.TP
\fBconf_animals\fR
If 1, oxen and birds appear in the game. These were added in "Sopwith 2" but
were not present in the original "Sopwith 1".
By default this is 1.
.TP
\fBconf_harrykeys\fR
If 1, the \fBkey_pullup\fR and \fBkey_pulldown\fR controls turn your plane
relative to the screen, rather than your plane. It is a common point of
confusion that the direction of turning appears to "reverse" when the plane
is flipped / flying towards the left.
By default this is 0.
.TP
\fBconf_big_explosions\fR
If 1, oil tanks produce a huge explosion when destroyed. This reproduces the
behavior found in both "Sopwith 1" and "Sopwith 2", but the magnitude of the
explosion was dialed back significantly in the "Network Edition" release.
The default is 1.
.TP
\fBconf_medals\fR
If 1, medals are sometimes awarded to the player on return to base. Some
details can be found in the "MEDALS" section of \fBsopwith\fR(6). The medals
do not have any effect on gameplay.
By default this is 1.
.SH KEY BINDINGS
The following settings determine the in-game controls. These are keyboard
scancodes, so the key binding does not change with keyboard layout. However,
the name for the key as shown in the in-game options menu should match the
current keyboard layout.
The values for these settings are scancodes from the USB standard for HID
devices:
.PP
https://www.usb.org/sites/default/files/documents/hut1_12v2.pdf
.TP
\fBkey_accelerate\fR
Key to accelerate the plane. Default is "X" on a US layout keyboard.
.TP
\fBkey_decelerate\fR
Key to decelerate the plane. Decelerating too much may cause the plane to
stall. Default is "Z" on a US layout keyboard.
.TP
\fBkey_pullup\fR
Key to pull up (aim the plane towards the sky). Default is "," on a US layout
keyboard. Note that \fBconf_harrykeys\fR may change the behavior of this key
binding.
.TP
\fBkey_pulldown\fR
Key to pull down (aim the plane towards the ground. Default is "/" on a US
layout keyboard.  Note that \fBconf_harrykeys\fR may change the behavior of
this key binding.
.TP
\fBkey_flip\fR
Key to flip the plane upside down. Default is "." on a US layout keyboard.
.TP
\fBkey_fire\fR
Key to fire the machine gun. Default on a US layout keyboard is the spacebar.
.TP
\fBkey_dropbomb\fR
Key to drop a bomb. Default is "B" on a US layout keyboard.
.TP
\fBkey_home\fR
Key to autopilot the plane home to base. Default is "H" on a US layout keyboard.
.SH HIDDEN SETTINGS
The following are "hidden settings": they cannot be edited in-game via the
options menu, and editing the configuration file is the only way to change
them.
.TP
\fBconf_missiles\fR
Enable missiles and starbursts (flares). This is a feature that was originally
added by the author of Sopwith in the "Network Edition" release, but has been
hidden as it significantly changes the gameplay in a way that doesn't fit the
game's theme and also isn't particularly fun.
.TP
\fBkey_missile\fR
Fire missile, if \fBconf_missiles\fR is enabled. Default key is "V" on a US
layout keyboard.
.TP
\fBkey_starburst\fR
Launch starburst (flare) if \fBconf_missiles\fR is enabled. Default key is "C"
on a US layout keyboard.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBsopwith\fR(6)

